---
layout: page
title: CE346
has_children: true
has_toc: false
nav_order: 5
---

# CE346 - Microprocessor System Design


## Description

The Internet of Things promises a world of computers woven into our physical
world. These computers do not look and function the same as the servers and
desktops that have long dominated the computing world. Instead, they take the
form of microcontrollers with a processor, memory, and peripherals all within a
single chip. Microcontrollers are then embedded into circuit boards alongside
sensors, batteries, and interfaces that connect it to the outside world

In this course, we explore the design and use of these microcontroller-based
systems. What are the requirements and capabilities of embedded software? How
do we connect computation to real-world input and use it to output to actuators
or other nearby computer systems? How can sensors be used and combined to
understand a computer's physical environment? Along the way we'll discuss many
aspects of software and electrical system designs and how they can be made to
work together. The class will include lectures on these topics, practical
hands-on lab sessions interacting with microcontroller systems, and an
open-ended final project.


## Prerequisites

 * **CS211 or equivalent**: C programming experience and Unix environments
 * **CS213, CE205, or equivalent**: Introduction to systems and computer organization


## Textbook

None.


## Detailed Course Topics

 * Microcontrollers
 * Embedded Software
 * Digital Input and Output
 * Analog Input and Output
 * Timers
 * Wired Communication Protocols (UART, SPI, I2C)
 * Basic Wireless Communication

We will investigate these topics through the Micro:bit v2 platform
(<https://microbit.org>). While the board supports many different languages, we
will be exploring low-level details about how the platform works using the C
programming language.


## Labs

These are in-person, guided team activities to develop and practice
understanding on the platform. Current labs include:

 * Memory-Mapped I/O and Interrupts
 * Timers
 * LED Matrix
 * Breadboarding
 * Audio
 * I2C Accelerometer

In-class time is reserved for labs and students must sign up for a lab session
when registering.


## Final Project

This is an open-ended, team-based project of the student's choosing that
demonstrates understanding and capabilities with embedded systems. Past
projects have included interactive robots, musical instruments, electronic
clothing, and Internet of Things devices.

